hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions start with the
square whose side length is 10 draw an
inscribed circle and then draw two
quarter circles solve for the area
shaded in blue using only primary school
maths that means trigonometry is allowed
but calculus is not allowed this was
asked in China to eleven-year-olds pause
the video if you'd like to give it a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
we'll get started with some useful
geometry formulas the area of a circular
sector is one-half times R squared
multiplied by the central angle theta if
we have a triangle with two sides a and
B and an angle C in between them its
area is 1/2 a B multiplied by the sine
of angle C now if the triangle has the
same dimensions as the circular sector
we then get the formula one half R
squared sine of theta if we then
subtract this triangle from the circular
sector we get the area of a circular
segment and that will become one half R
squared multiplied by the quantity theta
minus sine of theta next if we have a
triangle with sides a B and C we can
solve for the angle C opposite side C
using al-qasas law of cosines the angle
c will be the following it'll be the
inverse cosine of a squared plus b
squared minus c squared all over 2a B so
now let's solve the problem we'll draw a
diagonal of the square since the square
has a side length of 10 its diagonal
will be 10 times the square root of 2
this means half of the diagonal will be
5 times the square root of 2 next we'll
draw radii of the inscribed circle since
the inscribed circle has a diameter of
10 its radius will be 5 now we'll draw
radii of this quarter circle it'll have
a length of 10 because it's exactly the
same length as a side of the square
finally we'll draw this chord let's now
focus on one of the triangles in this
diagram we know all three sides of the
triangle so let's solve for this angle a
will use al-qasas law of cosines well
substitute in the values we have for
this triangle and then solve for the
angle a we'll put that to the side and
now we'll solve for this angle B well
again use L cashy's law of cosines well
substitute in the values for this
triangle and then we'll solve for the
value of angle
now notice that by symmetry this is also
angle B so this will be C which is equal
to two pi minus 2b we'll calculate the
angle C again by symmetry this is angle
a so we can solve for the value of 2a
will now calculate the area of this
circular sector will then subtract the
area of this triangle and we'll get the
area of this circular segment well
simplify this a little bit and we'll put
it to the side
well now calculate the area of this
circular sector and then subtract the
area of this following triangle and then
we'll get the area of this circular
segment in red we get this formula and
then we'll simplify it and now we want
to take the area of this red shape from
the area of this purple shape so that'll
be pretty much our answer we'll subtract
the red shape from the purple shape but
just for fun let's simplify this a
little bit we have the sine of C so I'll
substitute in the value for C we'll use
some trigonometric identities and then
we'll use the double angle identity sine
of two times an angle will be two times
the cosine of the angle multiplied by
the sine of the angle the cosine of the
inverse cosine of a quantity will
simplify then we have the sine of the
inverse cosine of a quantity we can draw
a right triangle this is the value of
the cosine in this triangle so we can
solve for the sine of the angle and we
substitute that in so we simplify this
and we figure out what sine of C is
equal to well substitute that and then
we'll do the same sort of thing for sine
of two times a we'll use some
trigonometric identities then we'll
simplify and then we'll draw a triangle
and we'll again calculate the sine of
this triangle this allows us to simplify
even further and we get what sine of 2a
is equal to now when we take the red
shape from the
people shape we end up with the blue
shape but we need the value of two of
these blue shapes so we'll multiply
everything by two next we can substitute
in our values of C and a and then we'll
simplify and we end up with this exact
form of the answer and this is
approximately twenty nine point two
seven six and don't forget the square
centimeters and that's our answer now at
this point we've done a lot of work so
it'll always be good to check your
answer and we're going to check it using
calculus so we have our shape and we'll
put a coordinate system in place we'll
then put this point as ten comma zero
well then calculate the equation of this
arc then we have the equation of this
lower part of the circle and then the
equation of this upper part of the
circle we can then calculate the
intersection of the lower part of the
circle with this quarter circle and then
we calculate the intersection of this
upper circle with the quarter circle we
now have three functions and we can
calculate the area as follows so the
first part of the shape will be the
integral that's going from x1 to x2 of F
of one minus F of two the remaining will
be the integral that goes from X to 2/10
of F of three minus F of two now what
these integrals we can numerically
calculate and get that the answer of one
of these blue segments will be
approximately fourteen point six three
eight we want the area of two of them so
we multiply by two and again we get
twenty nine point two seven six so it's
a pretty neat problem and I really like
that you can approach it both using
trigonometry and using calculus thanks
for watching and for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]